All right.
Welcome back.
So we're pushing on new strings and we're going to talk about this weird little kind of quirky niche
topic about strings called escape characters.
I've also heard them called escape sequences.
I think officially on the docks are called sequences but the idea here is that instead of strings instead
of quotes we have special sequences we can add which will be transformed or interpreted differently
by Python to do something special.
So the classic example is to add a return instead of a string.
So if we just tried to make a variable with the return in it like I don't know let's say new line equals
hello and then I want to return in there if I just hit enter.
It's too early and Python doesn't know what to do.
And it freaks out.
So that's not valid.
So we really need something like this that we could add in please add new line here pretty please.
But hopefully something shorter.
And obviously that doesn't work.
So the solution and this is not just unique to Python.
Most languages support these escape sequences.
They all start with backslashes.
So here's a list on the docs I've included as a resource.
But really there's up to the majority the vast majority of these you don't really need to care about
or know about.
But I'll point out a couple and the first one is this slash and back slash and excuse me and this will
create a new line.
So that's what we were looking for.
So if we did this new line variable equals the string hello world we add backslash.
And when we printed out we get hello.
And then world.
So let's try it.
Do new line equals high and then backslash in there.
And let's not even have that space there let's just do it like this.
And if I look at New Line it doesn't actually format it.
But then if I print a new line I get high and then there.
OK so that's the first escape sequence backslash.
And but there's also a couple more
but there's also a couple more and they all start with backslash.
So another one I'll show you.
Let's say you wanted to add a backslash.
Well if you just tried to add a backslash Python will think that it's the beginning of an escape sequence.
So it's actually double backslash.
So you know we could do string equals.
This is a backslash.
And if I just tried to do this.
See I get an error but if I do double backslash now I look at string.
Well if I print string
everything works out dandy.
Now I was I was preparing for this video.
I kind of noticed a couple.
One in particular that it's just bizarre to me that there was a backspace escape sequence so you can
do this which just seems really weird to me.
Let's do as TR equals low.
And then somewhere in the middle I can just do backslash B and it just acts to delete one of the characters.
So if I just look at string you can see who gets turned into this weird ASCII thing.
But now if I print string it delayed in an L I have no idea why you would want that just kind of a weird
thing.
The only other to point out if you want doubles.
But if you actually want double quotes for sure inside of your string and you are using double quotes
already.
So let's say you know I had string equals he said Ha ha right and I want double quotes or some reason
I don't want to change this to single quotes or I don't want to change the outer ones to single quotes.
You can do backslash quote just like that.
Well not like that like this.
And this works.
So this is the alternative to mixing and matching double and single strings or quotes.
And if I look at string now you can see it works just fine.
Same thing with single quotes.
I could.
I won't make you watch it but I could use backslash single quote instead of a single coded string.
And there's no problem here.
And basically Python will read this and say OK this is a string that starts with a single quote.
Keep going until we hit another single quote and it gets to here.
So it's a backslash and it's like oh what a relief.
This isn't the end of the string.
I thought it was but it's not.
This is a big escape sequence keeps going oh what a relief.
Another escape sequence.
And then it hits the end and it's like OK and my time over the string is done.
And that's it.
So escape sequences not that come in they use but the new line one I'd say and the quotation was particular
but there are some weird ones if you want to explore the docs.
All right.